README.md, before:

# Data Science Project Template

This repo is inspired by the [Docker for Datascience book](https://www.amazon.com/Docker-Data-Science-Extensible-Infrastructure/dp/1484230116). It's a Docker image with a data science environment based on the [jupyter/datascience-notebook](https://hub.docker.com/r/jupyter/datascience-notebook/) with pandas, matplotlib, scipy, seaborn and scikit-learn pre-installed.

With this image you can up your data science environment in minutes on any computer with Docker. It's also a very convenient way to share your work and run it on AWS for heavy calculations.

## To start a new Data science project:

1. Clone this repo

  The best way is to create a new folder with project name, cd into it, and then run

  ```
  git init
  git pull https://github.com/glebmikha/data-science-project-template.git
  ```
2. Add your favorite Python modules to ./docker/jupyter/requirements.txt. For example:
```
xgboost
tensorflow==1.6.0
```

3. Build and run containers
  ```
  docker-compose up --build
  ```
4. Copy a jupyter url from terminal and open it in your browser.
5. Find an examples.ipynb notebook in ipynb folder.
6. Upload your data into ./data and read it in Jupyter. You also can import data into PostgresSQL, which is running in it's own container along with Jupyter.
7. Stop and remove containers
  ```
  docker stop this_jupyter
  docker-compose rm -f
  ```

  To remove all containers
  ```
  docker rm -f $(docker ps -a -q)
  ```

  To delete volumes
  ```
  docker volume rm $(docker volume ls -q)
  ```

  Also read https://github.com/moby/moby/issues/23371

8. Clean Docker's mess
  ```
  docker rmi -f $(docker images -qf dangling=true)
  ```

## Connect to a container terminal
  ```
  bash -c clear && docker exec -it this_jupyter sh
  ```

## Create password

1. Hash your password
  ```
  from notebook.auth import passwd
  passwd()
  Enter password:
  Verify password:
  Out[2]: 'sha1:67c9e60bb8b6:9ffede0825894254b2e042ea597d771089e11aed'
  ```
2. Copy output to the jupyter_notebook_config.py like:
  ```
  c.NotebookApp.password = u'sha1:67c9e60bb8b6:9ffede0825894254b2e042ea597d771089e11aed'
  ```
3. Add to Jupyter Dockerfile
  ```
  COPY jupyter_notebook_config.py /etc/jupyter/ in Docker file
  ```

## Backup volumes

https://github.com/moby/moby/issues/32263

## Add a Python 2 kernel to Jupyter

Add to the Jupyter Dockerfile

```

# Create a Python 2.x environment using conda including at least the ipython kernel
# and the kernda utility. Add any additional packages you want available for use
# in a Python 2 notebook to the first line here (e.g., pandas, matplotlib, etc.)
RUN conda create --quiet --yes -p $CONDA_DIR/envs/python2 python=2.7 ipython ipykernel kernda && \
    conda clean -tipsy

USER root

# Create a global kernelspec in the image and modify it so that it properly activates
# the python2 conda environment.
RUN $CONDA_DIR/envs/python2/bin/python -m ipykernel install && \
$CONDA_DIR/envs/python2/bin/kernda -o -y /usr/local/share/jupyter/kernels/python2/kernel.json

USER $NB_USER

```

Commit message:

updated readme with how to update images

README.md, after:

# Data Science Project Template

This repo is inspired by the [Docker for Datascience book](https://www.amazon.com/Docker-Data-Science-Extensible-Infrastructure/dp/1484230116). It's a Docker image with a data science environment based on the [jupyter/datascience-notebook](https://hub.docker.com/r/jupyter/datascience-notebook/) with pandas, matplotlib, scipy, seaborn and scikit-learn pre-installed.

With this image you can up your data science environment in minutes on any computer with Docker. It's also a very convenient way to share your work and run it on AWS for heavy calculations.

## To start a new Data science project:

1. Clone this repo

  The best way is to create a new folder with project name, cd into it, and then run

  ```
  git init
  git pull https://github.com/glebmikha/data-science-project-template.git
  ```
2. Add your favorite Python modules to ./docker/jupyter/requirements.txt. For example:
```
xgboost
tensorflow==1.6.0
```

3. Build and run containers
  ```
  docker-compose up --build
  ```
You should check for updates once in a while. Use
```
docker-compose pull
```
You also can check udpates for images separately. For jupyter for example use:
```
docker pull jupyter/datascience-notebook:latest
```

4. Copy a jupyter url from terminal and open it in your browser.

Notice that jupyrer uses container name (like b612ade69526) as the host address. You should replace it with localhost. You also can configure jupyter to show custom host string. https://github.com/jupyter/notebook/pull/3668

There is aslo known limitation https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-mac/networking/#i-cannot-ping-my-containers of Docker for Mac -- you can't access a container neither its name nor ip address. There are some workaround, but the easiest one is just to run jupyters on diffrent ports, like 8889, 8890, etc.

5. Find an examples.ipynb notebook in ipynb folder.
6. Upload your data into ./data and read it in Jupyter. You also can import data into PostgresSQL, which is running in it's own container along with Jupyter.
7. Stop and remove containers
  ```
  docker stop this_jupyter
  docker-compose rm -f
  ```

  To remove all containers
  ```
  docker rm -f $(docker ps -a -q)
  ```

  To delete volumes
  ```
  docker volume rm $(docker volume ls -q)
  ```

  Also read https://github.com/moby/moby/issues/23371

8. Clean Docker's mess
  ```
  docker rmi -f $(docker images -qf dangling=true)
  ```

## Connect to a container terminal
  ```
  bash -c clear && docker exec -it this_jupyter sh
  ```

## Create password

1. Hash your password
  ```
  from notebook.auth import passwd
  passwd()
  Enter password:
  Verify password:
  Out[2]: 'sha1:67c9e60bb8b6:9ffede0825894254b2e042ea597d771089e11aed'
  ```
2. Copy output to the jupyter_notebook_config.py like:
  ```
  c.NotebookApp.password = u'sha1:67c9e60bb8b6:9ffede0825894254b2e042ea597d771089e11aed'
  ```
3. Add to Jupyter Dockerfile
  ```
  COPY jupyter_notebook_config.py /etc/jupyter/ in Docker file
  ```

## Backup volumes

https://github.com/moby/moby/issues/32263

## Add a Python 2 kernel to Jupyter

Add to the Jupyter Dockerfile

```

# Create a Python 2.x environment using conda including at least the ipython kernel
# and the kernda utility. Add any additional packages you want available for use
# in a Python 2 notebook to the first line here (e.g., pandas, matplotlib, etc.)
RUN conda create --quiet --yes -p $CONDA_DIR/envs/python2 python=2.7 ipython ipykernel kernda && \
    conda clean -tipsy

USER root

# Create a global kernelspec in the image and modify it so that it properly activates
# the python2 conda environment.
RUN $CONDA_DIR/envs/python2/bin/python -m ipykernel install && \
$CONDA_DIR/envs/python2/bin/kernda -o -y /usr/local/share/jupyter/kernels/python2/kernel.json

USER $NB_USER

```
